Update installation steps for minimal deployment. (#3101)
istio/istio.io: content/docs/setup/kubernetes/minimal-install/index.md

## Installation steps

> Choose one of the following two **mutually exclusive** options described below.

Reviewer: How is the reader supposed to choose? On what should they base the decision?

Reviewer 2: @rcaballeromx how about the following with some cleanup:
```
If you prefer to use Kubernetes manifests to deploy Istio, use option #1 below.  If you want Helm's TIller Pod(link to technical description of what TIller is) to manage your Istio release, please use Option 2 below.
```

Reviewer 2: @linsun ya that should probably be a `>` or an info emoji.

Reviewer: I liked @sdake version because it clarifies under what circumstances one options should be chosen over the other without forcing the reader to scroll down to make the decision. Ideally, I would introduce the options in a list and link to the appropriate heading in the text. One possibility would be:
```suggestion
You have two mutually exclusive options to install Istio:
- To use Kubernetes manifests to deploy Istio,  follow the instructions for [option #1](#option1).
- To use [Helm's Tiller pod](link to technical description of what TIller is) to manage your Istio release, follow the instructions for [option #2](#option2).
```

### Option 1: Install with Helm via `helm template`

1. Render Istio's core components to a Kubernetes manifest called `istio-minimal.yaml`:

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ cat install/kubernetes/namespace.yaml > $HOME/istio-minimal.yaml

Reviewer 3: Put @ on either end of the yaml file path, this will generate a link to the file on GitHub:

$ cat @install/kubernetes/namespace.yaml@ > $HOME/istio-minimal.yaml

Author: Great! done.

## Installation steps

Choose one of the following two **mutually exclusive** options described below.

### Option 1: Install with Helm via `helm template`

Choose this option if your cluster doesn't have [Tiller](https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/blob/master/docs/architecture.md#components) deployed and you don't want to install it.

1. Render Istio's core components to a Kubernetes manifest called `istio-minimal.yaml`:

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ cat @install/kubernetes/namespace.yaml@ > $HOME/istio-minimal.yaml

Reviewer 2: this step is a pretty good improvement!

>     $ cat install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init/files/crd-1* >> $HOME/istio-minimal.yaml

Reviewer 2: the naming convetion should be good with just `crd-*` - no need for the extra 1.

I'd also recommend against this installation method of creating the CRDs within the manifest - as if the manifest is deleted, all custom resources will be deleted.  Ideally CRD creation should be a separate step...  This is why we have an entirely seperate chart for the work.  That said, if an operator wishes to ensure the CRDs are applied without syncronizing on the completion of isito-init, that is straightforward

```
for $I in install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init/files/crd*; do kubectl apply -f $i; done
```

Note CRDs are cluster-scoped and do not require a namespace to be created.

Author: 1. My intention was that for minimal installation, the CRDs for `cert-manager` is not required. That's the reason why I added extra `1`.
2. Sounds good to create the CRDs in separate step, let me update that.

    $ helm template install/kubernetes/helm/istio --name istio --namespace istio-system \
      --set security.enabled=false \

>       --set ingress.enabled=false \

Reviewer 4: No need for this one because disabled by default

Author: Nice catch!

## Installation steps

Choose one of the following two **mutually exclusive** options described below.

> ### Option 1: Install with Helm via `helm template`

Reviewer: For the suggested links to work, I recommend adding a label to this heading:
```suggestion
### Option 1: Install with Helm via `helm template` {#option1}
```

Choose this option if your cluster doesn't have [Tiller](https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/blob/master/docs/architecture.md#components) deployed and you don't want to install it.

1. Install all the Istio's [Custom Resource Definitions or CRDs for short](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/#customresourcedefinitions) via `kubectl apply`, and wait a few seconds for the CRDs to be committed in the Kube api-server:

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ for i in install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init/files/crd*yaml; do kubectl apply -f $i; done

Reviewer 5: Is this approach really the right way to do it without helm? These CRDs have labels `heritage: Tiller` which makes no sense if Tiller is not used.

Shouldn't we have a build step that generates a non-helm yaml file (e.g., `istio-crds.yaml` that non-helm installs use. Don't we need that for users that install `istio-demo.yaml` anyway? https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/setup/kubernetes/quick-start/#option-1-install-istio-with-mutual-tls-enabled-and-set-to-use-permissive-mode-between-sidecars

Author: @sdake Any thought for this?

Author: @frankbu Maybe we can open another PR for this, what do you think?

Reviewer 2: @frankbu currently istio-init.yaml is created by the build system.  In addition, when istio-demo.yaml is generated, it is a cat of namespace.yaml, the CRDs, followed by istio-demo.yaml.

We should do an audit of labels that were unnecessarily added to all of the resources in 1.1 and remove them.  @costinm had suggested this some time ago, but the work hasn't been done.  Once the labels are in, they cannot be removed as the label field in a spec is immutable and my understanding is labels are expensive in Kubernetes.

Reviewer 5: @sdake, I guess you're saying that these are the correct instructions to install CRDs for the helm w/o tiller option. The istio-demo.yaml case is handled by istio-demo.yaml itself.

Is there an issue for removing `heritage: Tiller` (and any other unnecessary labels) from the templates? If I understand @sdake, it sounds like a must-have for 1.1.

Reviewer 2: @frankbu Right on.  As far as labels, we can't remove all of them - only the new ones that were introduced in release-1.1 branch.  Any present in the 1.0 branch need to stay, as labels are immutable and we wouldn't be able to upgrade.

I am unclear on the CRD labels - but I think the same applies.

Cheers
-steve

Reviewer 5: Is somebody signed up to send a PR to remove these labels? @morvencao?

Author: @frankbu @sdake Since the labels can't be removed for hem /w tiller method, while they can for `kubectl apply ...` method. Can we add condition that only remove the labels for `kubectl apply...` and keep them for helm /w tiller?

Author: @sdake @frankbu Have raise a PR: https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/11301 for you review.

>     $ for i in install install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init/files/crd*yaml; do kubectl apply -f $i; done

Author: Removed extra `install`.

    {{< /text >}}

1. Render Istio's core components to a Kubernetes manifest called `istio-minimal.yaml`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat @install/kubernetes/namespace.yaml@ > $HOME/istio-minimal.yaml
    $ helm template install/kubernetes/helm/istio --name istio --namespace istio-system \
      --values install/kubernetes/helm/istio/values-istio-minimal.yaml >> $HOME/istio-minimal.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1. Install the Pilot component via the manifest:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f $HOME/istio-minimal.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

> 

Reviewer: You need to change the heading for the link at the top of the file to work.

### Option 2: Install with Helm and Tiller via `helm install` {#option2}

### Option 1: Install with Helm via `helm template` {#option1}

Choose this option if your cluster doesn't have [Tiller](https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/blob/master/docs/architecture.md#components) deployed and you don't want to install it.

1. Install all the Istio's [Custom Resource Definitions or CRDs for short](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/#customresourcedefinitions) via `kubectl apply`, and wait a few seconds for the CRDs to be committed in the Kube api-server:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ for i in install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init/files/crd*yaml; do kubectl apply -f $i; done
    {{< /text >}}

1. Render Istio's core components to a Kubernetes manifest called `istio-minimal.yaml`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat @install/kubernetes/namespace.yaml@ > $HOME/istio-minimal.yaml
    $ helm template install/kubernetes/helm/istio --name istio --namespace istio-system \
      --values install/kubernetes/helm/istio/values-istio-minimal.yaml >> $HOME/istio-minimal.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1. Install the Pilot component via the manifest:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f $HOME/istio-minimal.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

> ### Option 2: Install with Helm and Tiller via `helm install` {#option2}

Reviewer 2: not sure what #option1 and #option2 do.  The links work without it, do they not?

Reviewer: They do if you include the entire heading on the link. Adding the label `{#option2}` makes the link easier to maintain because the heading can change without breaking the link.

1. If a service account has not already been installed for Tiller, install one:

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ kubectl apply -f @install/kubernetes/helm/helm-service-account.yaml@

Reviewer 6: what is the purpose of @ here?

Author: Put @ on either end of the yaml file path, this will generate a link to the file on GitHub.

Reviewer 2: yes I know, but why link it?

    $ helm init --service-account tiller
    {{< /text >}}

1. Install the `istio-init` chart to bootstrap all the Istio's CRDs:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm install install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init --name istio-init --namespace istio-system
    {{< /text >}}

1. Verify all the Istio's CRDs have been committed in the Kube api-server by checking all the CRD creation jobs complete with success:

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ kubectl get job --namespace istio-system | grep istio-crd

Reviewer 2: Are you sure this technique works?  I haven't tried it, however, the containers can exit and be in a 0/1 COMPLETED state, and still the CRDs lag in being commited in my experience.

Author: How about we check the crds number from API-server?
```
kubectl get crds | grep 'istio.io\|certmanager.k8s.io' | wc -l 
```
The result is supposed to be `57`(`51` for `v1.0`, `3` for `v1.1`, `3` for `cert-manager`) for istio v1.1

    $ helm init --service-account tiller
    {{< /text >}}

1. Install the `istio-init` chart to bootstrap all the Istio's CRDs:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm install install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init --name istio-init --namespace istio-system
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Verify all the Istio's CRDs have been committed in the Kube api-server by checking the number of CRD with specified suffix. Run the following command and check the result, totally `57` CRDs should be created for Istio:

Reviewer: Mind the line length. The text is a bit hard to follow due to all the different tenses present. Try simplifying the text to make it easier to understand:
```suggestion
1. To verify all Istio's CRDs were committed in the Kube api-server, check the number of CRDs with the specified suffix with the following command. Verify that the number of total CRDs created was `57` for Istio:
```

Reviewer 2: I would change `Kube api-server to "Kubernetes api-server`.  I am also not clear that 57 is accurate.  On a fresh cluster, I get 59:

kubectl get crds | grep 'istio.io\|certmanager.k8s.io' | wc -l

Author: @sdake Check CRD number again with latest `release-1.1`:
49 CRDs in https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/release-1.1/install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init/files/crd-10.yaml
4 CRDs in https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/release-1.1/install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init/files/crd-11.yaml
3 CRDs in https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/release-1.1/install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init/files/crd-certmanager-10.yaml

    $ helm init --service-account tiller
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Install the `istio-init` chart to bootstrap all the Istio's CRDs:

Reviewer: This is the new first mention of CRDs in the document, please expand the term and link to the definition as it was before:
```suggestion
1. Install the `istio-init` chart to bootstrap all the Istio's [Custom Resource Definitions or CRDs for short](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/#customresourcedefinitions):
```

Author: done.

> 1. Install the `istio-init` chart to bootstrap all the Istio's [CRDs]:

Reviewer 3: Why is CRDs in brackets?

Author: Removed brackets.

    $ helm init --service-account tiller
    {{< /text >}}

1. Install the `istio-init` chart to bootstrap all the Istio's [Custom Resource Definitions or CRDs for short](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/#customresourcedefinitions):

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm install install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init --name istio-init --namespace istio-system
    {{< /text >}}

> 

Reviewer 2: There should be a step about waiting for Istio's 58 crds to register.  On a new installation, I use this technique

```
kubectl get crds | wc -l
```
and if the value = 58, I know the CRD registration is done.  A better technique would be to check that all jobs created by istio-init are in completed 0/1 state.

Author: Done.

* For option 2, uninstall using Helm:

> Uninstalling this chart does not delete Istio's registered CRDs. Istio, by design, expects
> CRDs to leak into the Kubernetes environment. As CRDs contain all runtime configuration

> > data in custom resources the Istio designers consider better to explicitly delete this

Reviewer 2: `data in custom resource` -> `data for Istio configuraiton`.  This sentence is a little clunky.

> configuration rather then unexpectedly to lose it.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm delete --purge istio-minimal
    $ helm delete --purge istio-init
    {{< /text >}}

* If desired, run the following command to delete all CRDs:

> {{< warning_icon >}} Deleting CRDs deletes any configuration changes that you have made to Istio.

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ for i in install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init/files/crd*yaml; do kubectl delete -f $i; done

Reviewer 7: Is this the only cleanup step that needs to be done between istio installations?

Author: Yes, this is the last step if users want to cleanup all istio `CRDs`. The namespace should be deleted if they choose `kubectl delete...` instead of `helm delete`. But `CRDs` are cluster-wide resources, so it doesn't matter if the namespace exists or not.

Reviewer 2: @GregHanson - depends on the workflow.  For option 1, the namespace needs to be deleted.  For option 2, the namespace is automatically deleted.

>     $ for i in install install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init/files/crd*yaml; do kubectl delete -f $i; done

Reviewer 6: extra install here?

Author: Removed extra `install`.

* For option 2, uninstall using Helm:

> Uninstalling this chart does not delete Istio's registered CRDs. Istio, by design, expects
> CRDs to leak into the Kubernetes environment. As CRDs contain all runtime configuration

> > data for Istio configuration the Istio designers consider better to explicitly delete this

Reviewer 2: This sentence is klunky.  Recommend breaking it up with periods.  `CRDs contain all runtime configuration for Istio configuration.  The Istio designers consider it better for operators to explicitly delete the runtime configuration rather than unexpectedly lose it.

Reviewer: I agree, what about:
```suggestion
CRDs contain all the runtime configuration data needed to configure Istio. Because of this, we consider it better for operators to explicitly delete the runtime configuration data rather than unexpectedly lose it.
```

Author: Done

> > configuration rather then unexpectedly to lose it.

Reviewer: Typo:
```suggestion
> configuration rather than unexpectedly to lose it.
```

Author: Done

* For option 2, uninstall using Helm:

> > Uninstalling this chart does not delete Istio's registered CRDs. Istio by design expects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Uninstalling this chart does not delete Istio's registered CRDs. Istio, by design, expects
```

Author: done.

> CRDs to leak into the Kubernetes environment. As CRDs contain all runtime configuration

> > data in CutomResources the Istio designers feel it is better to explicitly delete this

Reviewer 3: CutomResources -> custom resources

Reviewer: This recommendation is great because you then don't need to add them to the exceptions file.

> > data in custom resources the Istio designers feel it is better to explicitly delete this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> data in custom resources, the Istio designers consider better to explicitly delete this
```

Author: done.

> > configuration rather then unexpectedly lose it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> configuration rather than to unexpectedly lose it.
```

Author: done

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm delete --purge istio-minimal
    $ helm delete --purge istio-init
    {{< /text >}}

* If desired, run the following command to delete all CRDs:

> > Warning: Deleting CRDs will delete any configuration that you have made to Istio.

Reviewer 3: configuration -> configuration changes

Author: Done.

> > {{< warning_icon >}} Deleting CRDs will delete any configuration changes that you have made to Istio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> {{< warning_icon >}} Deleting CRDs deletes any configuration changes that you have made to Istio.
```

Author: done

* For option 2, uninstall using Helm:

> Uninstalling this chart does not delete Istio's registered CRDs. Istio, by design, expects
> CRDs to leak into the Kubernetes environment. As CRDs contain all runtime configuration
> data in custom resources the Istio designers consider better to explicitly delete this
> configuration rather then unexpectedly to lose it.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm delete --purge istio-minimal
    $ helm delete --purge istio-init
    {{< /text >}}

* If desired, run the following command to delete all CRDs:

> {{< warning_icon >}} Deleting CRDs deletes any configuration changes that you have made to Istio.

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ for i in install install/kubernetes/helm/istio-init/files/*crd-1*yaml; do kubectl delete -f $i; done

Reviewer 2: again `crd-*` should be sufficient.  We definately dont want a  wildcard on the beginning of the file.  the 1 is unnecessary.

Author: Done.
